What about looking at,
at a particular characteristics of both physical ideas and mathematical ideas,
which is beauty. Do you think beauty leads us astray, meaning, um, and,
and you offline showed me a, uh, a really nice puzzle that illustrates this, uh,
this idea a little bit, not,
maybe you can speak to that or another example where, uh,
beauty makes it tempting for us to assume that the,
the law and the theory we found is actually one that perfectly describes
reality.
I think that beauty does not, uh,
lead as astray because I feel that beauty is a requirement for
principles of physics.
So beauty is a fundamental in the.
Universe. I think beauty is fundamental.
At least that's the way many of us view it. It's not emergent. <laugh>,
it's not emergent. I think,
I think Hardy is the mathematician who said that there's no permanent place for
ugly mathematics <laugh>. And so I think the same is true in physics, uh, that,
uh, if we find the principle which looks ugly, uh, we are not going to be,
that's not the end stage. So therefore beauty is going to lead us somewhere.
Now it doesn't mean beauty is enough. It doesn't mean if you just have beauty.
If I just look at, uh, something is beautiful, then I'm fine. No,
that's not the case.
Beauty is certainly a criteria that every good physical theory should pass.
That's at least the view we have. Why do we have this view?
That's a good question. It is a partly, uh,
you could say based on expert experience of science over centuries,
partly is a philosophical view of what, what, what reality is or should be.
And, uh, in principle, you know,
it could have been ugly and we might have had to deal with it,
but we have gotten maybe, uh,
confident through examples after examples in the history of science to look for
Butte.
In our sense of be beauty seems to incorporate a lot of things that are
essential for us to solve some difficult problems like symmetry.
We find symmetry beautiful, and the breaking of symmetry beautiful.
Somehow symmetry is a,
is a fundamental part of how we conceive of beauty at all.
Layers of reality, which is interesting, like, uh, in, in both the visual,
like way we look at art, we look at each other as human beings,
the way we look at creatures in the biological space,
the way we look at chemistry and then into the physics world, as, as,
as the work you do, as it's kind of interesting, it, it makes you wonder, like
which one is the chicken or the egg assymetry, the,
the chicken and our conception of beauty, the egg, or the, the other way around,
or somehow the fact that every the symmetry is, is part of reality,
is it somehow creates the brain that then is able to perceive it,
or maybe that's,
this is just cuz we maybe it's so obvious.
It's almost trivial that symmetry of course will be part of every C kind of
universe that's possible. Uh, and then our,
any kind of organism that's able to observe that universe is going to
appreciate, uh, symmetry.
Well, these are good questions. Uh,
we don't have a deep understanding of why we get attracted to symmetry. Yeah.
Why do laws of nature seem to have symmetries underlying them
and the reasoning or the examples of whether if there wasn't symmetry,
we would've understood it or not. We could have said that. Yeah. If there were,
you know, things we shouldn't look at great. We could understand them.
For example, we know at symmetries get broken and we have appreciated nature
in the broken symmetry phase as well.
The world we live in has many things we do not look symmetric,
but even those have underlying symmetry when you look at it more deeply.
So we have gotten maybe spoiled perhaps by,
by the appearance of symmetry all over the place and we look for it and, and um,
I think this is,
this is perhaps related to sense of aesthetics that scientists have.
And we don't usually talk about it among scientists. Uh, in fact,
it's kind of a philosophical view of why do we look for simplicity or beauty or
so forth. And, uh, I think in a sense,
scientists are a lot like philosophers sometimes I think especially modern
science seems to shine what Sean's philosophers and philosophical views mm-hmm
<affirmative>. And I think at their peril, I think, I think in my view, science,
uh, owes a lot to philosophy and in my view, many scientists,
in fact, probably all good scientists are perhaps amateur philosophers.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> they may not state that they are philosophers or they,
they may not like to be labeled philosophers, but in many ways,
what they do is like what is philosophical takes of things,
looking for simplicity or symmetries, an example of that in my opinion,
or seeing patterns you see, for example, another example of the symmetries,
like how you come up with ideas in science, you see, for example,
an idea a is connected with an idea B okay, so you,
you study this connection very deeply and then you find the cousin of an idea,
a, let me call it a prime.
And then you immediately look for B prime, if a is like B, and if there's an,
a prime, then you look for B prime. Why? Well it come pleases the picture,
why? Well it's philosophically appealing to have more balance in terms of that.
And then you look for B prime and low and behold,
you find this other phenomenon, which is a physical phenomenon,
which you call B prime.
So this kind of thinking motivates asking questions and looking for things.
And it has guided scientists, I think, through many centuries.
And I think it continue is to do so today.